---
label: 
title: Captions
short_title:
type: page
weight: 15
class:
object:
  - id: 5
---
See [Credit Lines](/general-style-matters/7/#credit-lines), Dates, Dimensions, Editorial Procedures (Labels), Names, Numbers, Sources

It is most important to supply the same information, presented in the same order, in each caption. Please note that the text of captions is run in, unlike the text of labels, which is “stacked” (each line of text beginning flush left).

The basic information is usually given this way:

Rembrandt Harmensz. van Rijn (Dutch, 1606–1669). *Self-Portrait at the Age of Thirty-Four*, 1640. Oil on canvas, 40 ⅛ x 31 1/2 in. (102 x 80 cm). National Gallery, London

Clay figurine. Japanese, latest Jomon period (ca. 1000–250 b.c.). H. 2 ¼ in. (6.4 cm). The Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, Gift of Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Koizim, 1978 (1978.346)

&nbsp;


#### Collections

If the work illustrated is in a private collection, use this form: Collection of John Bettson Davis. If the owner wishes to be anonymous, use “Private collection, Catalogue Entries 33 [city].” Otherwise, use the credit line supplied by the collector or institution, *but* always use the Chicago older-style abbreviations for names of states (e.g., Museum of Fine Arts, Springfield, Mass.). “New York” will be understood to mean New York, New York; never use “New York City.” If the city’s name is in the title of the institution (The Art Institute of Chicago), there is no need to repeat the name of the city. To find the correct way to cite an American museum or to determine whether the definite article preceding the name should be capitalized, check the most recent edition of the IDA (*International Directory of Arts*), *The Official Museum Directory*, or the museum’s website.

Note: Do not capitalize the definite article in running text except in the case of The Metropolitan Museum of Art.
