---
label: 
title: Credit Lines
short_title:
type: page
weight: 17
class:
object:
  - id: 7
---
See Editorial Procedures ([Author’s Responsibilities](/editorial-procedures/1/#authors-responsibilities): [Sponsor Credits](/editorial-procedures/1/#sponsor-credits)), Editorial Procedures ([Labels](/editorial-procedures/3/#labels)), Captions, Names

When writing a credit line for a work in the Museum’s collection, use only the line approved by Archives. Do not create or edit credit lines and do not base credit lines on departmental or Registrar’s office cards or TMS unless tagged by Archives as approved. Archives is the official source for the correct form of all credit lines and should be consulted if you have any doubts.

When a credit line indicating a sponsor’s support of an exhibition or publication is necessary, obtain the correct wording from Development.

A Museum credit line consists of a source line and the date the object entered the collection: Rogers Fund, 1910; Gift of Mr. and Mrs. Charles Wrightsman, 1970. The accession number follows the credit line in parentheses. Any exceptions
must be approved by Archives.

The date given for a gift or purchase represents the year of accession; the date on a bequest indicates the year of death and may differ from the first part of the accession number: Bequest of Benjamin Altman, 1913 (14.40.620).

Full credit lines are preferred, except where space is at a premium. Before shortening or eliminating a credit line, you must consult the Counsel’s Office.

When writing a credit line for a work not in the Museum’s collection, use the exact wording of the credit line dictated by the collector or institution, except that Chicago abbreviations for states should be used, not U.S. Postal Service twoletter abbreviations. See Chicago, 10.28.


{{< q-class "backmatter" >}}

{{< /q-class >}}
