---
label: 
title: Manuscript Preparation
short_title:
type: page
weight: 5
class:
object:
  - id: 1
---
*The following information is intended to assist authors in the preparation of their manuscripts and related material for submission to the Editorial Department. Most of the general instructions about manuscript preparation apply to books, exhibition and collection catalogues, checklists, wall labels, and miscellaneous brochures, pamphlets, or other forms of printed matter. Because books (including catalogues) and wall labels require special procedures, however, separate sections devoted to them follow the general discussion of manuscript preparation.*

&nbsp;


See [Typing The Manuscript](#typing-the-manuscript)

&nbsp;


#### Preparing a Text File
By “manuscript” we mean the completed work in the form of a Microsoft Word file or files sent to an editor by email.

File names should indicate the order of the texts (chap1, chap2, and so on). Chapters or sections of books and lengthy catalogue entries may be submitted each in its own file. For books, front matter (title page, table of contents, foreword, list of lenders to the exhibition, and preface and acknowledgments), back matter (appendixes, glossary, bibliography, tombstone information, and photo credits), and illustration captions should be grouped in files separate from the texts.

Files for essays should include the text and the accompanying notes, styled as endnotes and created using the “Footnotes” function in Word (under the “References” tab). Files for catalogue entries should contain all material related to the text: notes, provenance, exhibition history, and references. Please make a separate file for each individual text (essay or entry) to avoid confusion over consecutively numbered endnotes. When naming files, it is best to avoid the use of special characters such as brackets, commas, ampersands, exclamation points, quotation marks, and parentheses (underscores are acceptable).

&nbsp;


#### Author’s Responsibilities
Authors (both in-house curators and non-staff authors) are expected to submit a complete manuscript, including notes, and a list of images with all pertinent information (see Image Acquisitions), by the deadline agreed upon with Editorial. Normally, this deadline is one year before publication or exhibition date. **Timely delivery allows for sufficient discussion between author and editor during the editing process; the later the delivery, the less time the author has to review edits and make revisions. It also helps us to avoid errors and budget overruns.**

The manuscript, including a full art list (with captions), should be delivered to the editor assigned to the project. If multiple views exist of a given object, the author should specify which view is preferred. To facilitate the editorial, design, and production functions, the Editorial Department asks that a author submit several elements at the outset of the project, even though they are not yet in final form:

- Table of contents (preliminary version)
- List of catalogue entries
- List of illustrations (tentative)

In addition, the author will be responsible for delivering the following components before a manuscript can be considered fully submitted:

- Title page
- Table of contents (final version)
- Draft of the Director’s Foreword
- List of lenders to the exhibition
- Preface and acknowledgments
- Introduction
- Text with notes
- Catalogue entries with apparatus and notes (if applicable)
- Appendices (if applicable)
- Glossary (if applicable)
- Chronology (if applicable)
- Bibliography
- Captions for illustrations
- List of illustrations (final)

&nbsp;


#### Sponsor Credits
See [Captions](/general-style-matters/5/#captions), Credit Lines, Editorial Procedures (Labels), Names

Books that are subsidized or that accompany funded exhibitions carry credit lines on the copyright page. The correct wording for these credits is supplied by Development, which must review the copyright page and the sponsor’s foreword, if there is one, before the book goes to press. Development is also responsible for reviewing the acknowledgments in the Director’s Foreword as well as those written by the curator. The curatorial department is responsible for identifying all credit lines that have not been approved by Archives as per the object record in TMS. The Editorial Department asks Archives to verify all unapproved credit lines. Archives submits corrections to Editorial.

&nbsp;


#### Acknowledgments
Authors may acknowledge the assistance of institutions and individuals at the end of a preface, in a separate Acknowledgments section if there are enough names to warrant one, or in a headnote preceding numbered endnotes of an essay or catalogue entry. In any case, acknowledgments should be brief. In exhibition catalogues and certain other scholarly publications, acknowledgments may be incorporated into the Director’s Foreword. In this case, the author should supply the Office of the Director and Development, as well as Editorial, with a complete list of the names, titles, and affiliations of people to be thanked.

&nbsp;


#### Sources
See [Captions](/general-style-matters/5/#captions), Credit Lines, Names, Spelling

Consult the following standard reference works for spelling and style: Webster’s Third New International Dictionary, unabridged, for spelling, capitalization, hyphenation, and word division. Do not italicize any foreign word that appears in Webster’s Third. See Spelling below for a list of preferred spellings; those that differ from Webster’s are marked with an asterisk. Merriam-Webster’s Collegiate Dictionary (11th ed., 2003) is a desk-size work that is based on and in some instances updates Webster’s Third. It is an invaluable reference tool for all authors and editors. Where there is disagreement, follow the spelling given in Webster’s Eleventh.

Random House Webster’s Unabridged Dictionary may be used for art terminology and for other words not found in Webster’s Third or Webster’s Eleventh.

Personal names: Use the individual’s preference when known. Otherwise, use Merriam-Webster’s Biographical Dictionary (3rd ed., 1995).

Place-names: Use Merriam-Webster’s Geographical Dictionary (3rd ed., 1997). Names of very small, remote, or little-known places that do not appear in Webster’s can often be found in the most recent edition of The Times Atlas of the World.

General style: This style manual is based on The Chicago Manual of Style (16th ed., rev., Chicago, 2010). The online version of The Chicago Manual of Style is available to MMA staff and onsite visitors to the MMA through [Watsonline](http://libmma.org/portal/the-chicago-manual-of-style-online/).

General reference: The Columbia Encyclopedia (6th ed., rev. 2000) can resolve many questions about historical and cultural events and dates. Spelling of artists’ names: Approved Artists Running List (a.k.a. MMA Approved Constituents Records, available to MMA staff on the Intranet in TMS Documents); Oxford Art Online (available to MMA staff through Watsonline); Union List of Artist Names (ULAN) on the [Getty Research Insitute’s website](http://www.getty.edu/research/tools/vocabularies/ulan/); the [Allgemeines Künstlerlexikon](http://libmma.org/portal/allgemeines-kunstlerlexikon-world-biographical-dictionary-of-artists/); and the [Rijksbureau voor Kunsthistorische Documentatie’s](https://rkd.nl/en/) online database of artists’ names for Dutch and Flemish artists.

Names of museums: Consult IDA (International Directory of Arts), The Official Museum Directory, or a museum’s official website for the correct way to refer to museums (see Names).

Bible: The Authorized (King James) Version is preferred for the majesty of its style, but some departments may choose to use the Douay Version or the Revised Standard Version.

&nbsp;


#### Typing the Manuscript
Double-space all material, including notes, extracts, bibliographies, and captions. Notes should be placed after the text (as endnotes rather than footnotes), be in the same size as the main text, and be double-spaced.

Authors should not concern themselves with formatting the text, except to indicate italicization, cross-references, and extracts (for all three, see below). Use upper- and lowercase letters, not all caps or small caps, for headings, subheads, chapter titles, and other elements of your manuscript that will eventually appear as display type.

Leave ample margins, about 1 1/2 inches on the left and at least 1 inch on the right. Keep the same margins on every page and the same number of lines per page. The right-hand margin should be ragged, not justified.

Do not manually break words at the ends of lines. Turn off the automatic hyphenation feature in Word (Page Layout tab > Hyphenation > select None). The only hyphens in your manuscript should be in hyphenated compound words.

Turn off fractions (1/2) and ordinals (1st). The path is: File tab > Word options > Proofing > AutoCorrect Options button > AutoFormat tab; from the list, uncheck “Fractions with fraction character” and “Ordinals with superscript.”

Type straight text in paragraph style, with a one-tab indent on the first line. Use the return key (Enter) at the end of a paragraph. Do not create hanging indents with your software (the first line flush left and the remaining lines indented).

After a period, use just one space before the start of the next sentence.

For indents, do not use spaces; instead, use the tab key or the automatic indent function on the ruler. Do not leave extra lines between paragraphs unless you wish to indicate a major break that should be preserved in the printed book.

Never use letters to indicate numbers as, for example, the lowercase l for the number one or the letter O for zero.

Use serial commas (e.g., The artist sketched the landscape in ink, oil, and acrylic on paper).

Em dashes and en dashes ( — and – ) should be entered in Word by using the appropriate keystrokes: <u>On a PC</u>: Ctrl + Alt + - for an em dash; Ctrl + - for an en dash. **[NB: use the minus key on the numeric pad to the right; it will not work with the one at the top of the keyboard.]** <u>On a Mac</u>: Shift + Option + - for an em dash; Option + - for an en dash. However, it is also acceptable to use one hyphen for an en dash and two for an em dash. All dashes should be closed up (no space in-between) to the characters preceding and following them. (See Punctuation: Hyphens, En Dashes, and Em Dashes for specific rules regarding the use of en and em dashes.)

Italicized material should be indicated by using the Italic command.

For cross-references to text and illustrations, type a blind reference, with the zeros in bold, and indicate the relevant manuscript page or name or number assigned to the artwork (e.g., see page **00** [32]); (fig. **00** [Portrait of a Man]).

Verse quotations, unless unusual emphasis is required, should be run into the text and enclosed in quotation marks with a slash ( / ) separating each line of the poem (e.g., The children said in unison, “Twinkle, twinkle, little star / How I wonder what you are,” and ran into the hallway).

&nbsp; When not run in, poetry extracts should be set off by one blank line (one extra hard return) above and below. It is not necessary to indent the poem. That will be handled by the typesetter. Quotation marks are not needed unless they occur within the poem itself. Do not indicate runover lines unless the poem needs to be reproduced line by line, but do indicate the end of a line by a hard return.

Prose quotations of fewer than eight lines should be run into the text and enclosed in quotation marks. Note that quotations within such quotations take single quotation marks. Quotations of eight lines or more are set off from the text by a blank line (one extra hard return) above and below. These set-off quotations are called “extracts.” Extracts may be indented in Word by using the “Increase Indent” button (lines with right-pointing arrow) under the Home tab > Paragraph. No quotation marks are used at the beginning or end of set-off extracts, so internal quotation marks remain as they are in the original.

In quotations from sources using British spelling and punctuation, punctuation should be Americanized (double quotation marks, periods and commas within quotation marks), but British spelling should be retained.
For an ellipsis within a sentence, use three dots, leaving equal space before the first and after the last dot as well as between each of the three. Four dots indicate the omission of (1) the last part of a quoted sentence, (2) the first part of the next sentence, or (3) a whole sentence or more. When using four dots, the first is a period closed up to the preceding word, and the next three are spaced as described above. Retain an exclamation point or question mark from the original material instead of the first period in a four-period ellipsis, but replace commas, semicolons, or colons from the original with a period. Quotations should neither begin nor end with an ellipsis.

When the text contains special ligatures or archaic or non-Western languages, these should be discussed in advance with Editorial, or a PDF or image provided to show what the type should look like.

If the manuscript contains tables, the author should supply accurate printouts so that the typesetter can easily follow their format. Tables can be submitted either in Microsoft Excel or as a Microsoft Word table. <u>If the table is set up manually in Microsoft Word, however, use only a one-tab space between columns; although the columns will not look aligned on-screen, the single-tab formatting will help the typesetter.</u>
