---
label:
title: The Publishing Process
short_title:
type: page
weight: 6
object:
  - id: 2
---
#### Schedules, Budgets, and Approvals

Editorial generally requires a minimum of two years to plan, edit, and produce a major exhibition catalogue.


Approximately two years before the exhibition’s opening, members of Editorial meet with the curator to discuss catalogue content, format, bibliographic style, contributing authors, word counts, number of illustrations, and authors’ fees; and to determine key delivery dates for text and photographs. Curators should provide for this meeting a proposed table of contents, book description, and exhibition dates and venues, and a list of contributing authors with their proposed assignments. They should also confirm whether the exhibition has been approved by the Director’s Office, and whether any funding has been secured.
At this meeting, Editorial will fill out the New Publication Planning Agreement, which is the basis for preparing a budget. Curators are invited to read the blank form beforehand in preparation for the discussion. The Publication Planning Agreement can be found on the Intranet in the Editorial Department’s Sharepoint site (https://metropolitan.sharepoint.com/sites/departments/editorial).


Once sufficient information has been gathered, Editorial prepares a preliminary catalogue budget for the Director’s review and approval.
<u>Please note that a catalogue should not be assumed, or announced on the Exhibitions calendar, until it has been discussed with Editorial and approved by the Director.</u>


After the catalogue budget is approved by the Director, the curator should provide Editorial with the list of approved contributing authors, including contact information and writing assignments. Editorial prepares and sends
contracts to all outside contributing authors. Editorial is responsible for setting deadlines for delivery of text and negotiating fees with outside contributors; curatorial departments are specifically asked not to confirm with outside
contributors that they will be writing for the publication before the proposal and budget has been officially approved. In no circumstances should MMA curators negotiate fees with outside contributors.


If a contributing author is also a guest curator of the exhibition and has signed an independent contractor agreement with the MMA, this agreement typically includes arrangements for the guest curator’s catalogue contributions.

&nbsp;


#### Contracts


When an outside (non-MMA staff) author is engaged to write essays, entries, or other texts, the Editorial Department prepares a contract to cover the assignment of copyright to the Museum (under the terms of “work made for hire”), as well as information regarding deadlines, payment of the fees, warranties about the originality of the material, and various other issues for which the author might be responsible. Contracts are not usually drawn up with authors on the Museum’s staff, nor are fees paid (*except for the Metropolitan Museum Journal*).


Contracts are issued once the project budget has been approved by the Director (see Schedules, Budgets, and Approvals). Please note that Editorial cannot issue outside author contracts or begin incurring costs on a given project until that project has been officially approved. Authors are encouraged to sign and return their contracts to Editorial as quickly as possible . In most cases, payment is due to the author either upon signature of contract or delivery of acceptable manuscript, along with presentation of an invoice . Authors cannot be paid until Editorial has received both a signed, fully executed contract and an invoice.

&nbsp;


#### Editing


An editor is assigned to the catalogue when the manuscript is received by Editorial (or at an earlier point if feasible). Assignments are made on the basis of availability, though curatorial preference is taken into account whenever possible. If the author and/or curator have questions during the preparation of the manuscript, they may consult with the managing editor or the editor, if one has been assigned.


Please note: Editorial expects the text from all contributors to be vetted by the coordinating curator before it is delivered to Editorial for editing; this step needs to be taken into consideration when text deadlines are set.


During the editing process, the editor queries the author for the purpose of clarifying meaning, achieving consistency and concision, and conforming to the MMA’s internal style. After the manuscript is edited, it is reviewed by the author and, in the case of multiple authors, by the organizing curator. The author is expected to respond to queries, accept or reject the editor’s changes, and return the edited manuscript by the specified date. When all reviews are completed, the manuscript is sent out for typesetting.


Editors keep a style sheet of instances of punctuation and spelling that vary from this style guide.

&nbsp;


#### Copyright


With few exceptions, the Museum holds the copyright for every work it publishes. The Museum also holds copyright to texts written by staff members if the works are prepared within the scope of Museum duties, and in most cases to work commissioned from outside authors. When the Museum holds the copyright for a published text, the author who wishes to reprint his or her work at a later time should write to the Editorial Department for permission, which will not be unreasonably withheld.


For questions pertaining to copyright of illustrations and permissible use of images, please consult with Editorial.


The Editorial Department will prepare copy for the copyright page and will apply to the Library of Congress for Cataloging-in-Publication (CIP) data. The assistant managing editor is responsible for applying for CIP data. CIP is a service of the Library of Congress, through which a work is catalogued for librarians. CIP data is usually printed on the copyright page.

&nbsp;


#### Image Acquisitions


As a general rule, the Editorial Department, through its Image Acquisitions and Permissions group, collects images (for works of art on loan and comparative photographs) from institutions other than the MMA, and clears permissions for their use for most non-commercial purposes throughout the Museum (catalogue, exhibition, press and publicity, education, social media, and some
Web use). This centralized approach allows greater efficiency among departments and ensures that costs are minimized, and schedules well planned with regard
to clearing image rights . The precise work flow may vary slightly from project to project, depending on the specific circumstances.


A preliminary number of images for a publication (catalogue objects plus comparatives) should be set at an initial meeting between the curator and the Editorial department when the publication is first planned; this information is necessary to help craft a project budget. Once the project budget has been approved, the curator arranges to meet with the image acquisitions manager to discuss the acquisition of non-Met images.


A specific image list is due from the curator with the manuscript on a specifically scheduled date, usually one year in advance of the publication date. Once the list has been mutually agreed upon by the curator and Editorial, Editorial gathers the images and puts them into the digital asset management system.


Image lists should include artist/maker (including birth–death dates, as listed on the MMA Approved Constituents List), title or description, date, medium, dimensions, repository, and inventory number. Digital scans or other image representations are very helpful. The image list should include vetted lists from outside authors; curators should request image lists from outside authors earlier than deadline, to leave time for review and possible revision before the submission date. Once the image list has been submitted to Editorial, any further changes to it, including requests for additional images, must be agreed upon between the author and Editorial; any such agreed-upon changes should be communicated immediately to both the editor and the image acquisitions manager associated with the project to avoid unnecessary acquisitions and payments.


Generally speaking, images cannot be changed or replaced once they have been acquired by Editorial, as such changes entail significant additional expenditure of time and money. Any requests to change, add, or replace images after this point will be decided by Editorial on a case-by-case basis.


Orders for new photography of Met objects should be submitted directly from the curatorial department to the Photograph Studio with a due date that fits the publication schedule. If scans from books are required, the Editorial department will place the relevant IOWA order with the Photograph Studio.


If new photography of non-Met objects is needed, Editorial will commission new photography from the Photograph Studio, a freelance photographer, or the lending institution.


Images to be used for purposes other than those requested by Editorial, including images for research purposes, are ordered directly by the curator at the expense of the curatorial department.
