---
label: 
title: Labels
short_title:
weight: 7
object:
  - id: 3
type: page
abstract:
---
Label copy generally includes:

&nbsp; Text panels introducing the exhibition and its primary sections <br/>
&nbsp; Labels for walls and cases consisting of a “tombstone,” or ID, and, frequently, <br/>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; a brief description, or “chat” <br/>
&nbsp; Group labels for cases

The tombstone may supply artist, nationality, birth and death dates, birth and death locations, title of work, date of work, medium, credit line, and accession number. Only works in the Museum collection need an accession number.
Tombstones do not include dimensions. Please see below for tombstone format templates.

Whenever possible, the following guidelines for labels will also apply to tombstones in publications.

&nbsp;


#### Exhibition Labels

Special exhibition labels should be prepared with the same care given to any Museum publication. When labels are edited, deviations from Museum style will be corrected. The Design Department provides type specifications to the Editorial Department, which handles typesetting. All Word docs provided by curatorial must be organized to conform to the needs of the Design Department—i.e., all case labels in one file, all text panels in a second, all wall labels in a third, and so on—and not exceed the maximum word count for each type of label. For this reason, curators should meet with the graphic designer assigned to the project before beginning to write. Label copy thus organized should be emailed to the Editorial Department. The editor will provide each curator with edited text with all corrections, suggestions, and queries in Word documents with tracked changes. Editorial will email the curator a PDF of the first proofs; the curator should note corrections in red on a printout or in the PDF file(s) using Adobe sticky notes. Editor and curator will decide which method to use, but PDF is usually preferred, as it is faster. First proofs should be returned to the editor in a timely fashion. If necessary, second proofs will be generated; curators generally do not review second proofs.

&nbsp; **The importance of timely delivery of material to Editorial cannot be overemphasized.** Because special exhibitions follow tight schedules, all copy for text panels and labels should be submitted to the Editorial Department at least twelve weeks before the opening. After initial edits, the Director’s Office will review introductory panels and text panels for certain special exhibitions and further edits will be made if necessary. If material must be delivered in sections, priority should be given to copy that is to be silk-screened (usually, intro panels and wall panels).

&nbsp;


#### Permanent Installation and Replacement Labels

Labels for permanent installation rotations that have been approved and scheduled with the Exhibitions Department, as well as labels to update or correct existing text, are due to Editorial ten weeks prior to the installation. Rotation and replacement labels will be edited and produced as quickly as possible; please
note, however, that time-sensitive projects, such as major exhibition labels, might have to take precedence.

&nbsp;


#### Length of Labels

Exhibition texts should be brief and concise. In general, text panels cannot exceed 250 words (or 200 if they include an image with a caption); wall labels, 125 words; and case labels, 75 words. These word counts do not include tombstones. Please note that these numbers are estimates only: final word counts may need to be adjusted in editing to ensure that the typeset text fits on the label, depending on the particular label design, length of object information, etc. Again, please meet with the graphic designer assigned to your exhibition before you begin writing, as there may be exceptions to these general guidelines depending on specific gallery configurations.

&nbsp;


#### Label Templates

The following label styles have been devised with the needs of the various curatorial departments in mind; only one style should be adopted per gallery or exhibition. If the specific exhibition requires altering one of these templates, including reordering the information, please confer with the editor:

1
Maker (nationality, birth/death dates if known) [in certain departments—DPP, <br/>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Photographs—nationality and birth/death dates are on next line] <br/>
Title, date <br/>
Medium <br/>
Credit line followed by accession number in parentheses on same line

EXAMPLE FOR STYLE 1 <br/>
**Goya (Francisco de Goya y Lucientes)** (Spanish, Fuendetodos 1746–1828 <br/>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Bordeaux) <br/>
*Manuel Osorio Manrique de Zuñiga,* 1787–88 <br/>
Oil on canvas <br/>
The Jules Bache Collection, 1949 (49.7.41)

2 <br/>
Title <br/>
Medium [if appropriate] <br/>
Maker (nationality, birth/death dates if known) <br/>
Date [+ place] <br/>
Credit line followed by accession number in parentheses on same line

EXAMPLE FOR STYLE 2 <br/>
**Adam** <br/>
Marble <br/>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Tullio Lombardo (ca. 1455–1532)<br/>
Italian (Venice), ca. 1490–95 <br/>
Fletcher Fund, 1936 (36.163)

3 <br/>
Title <br/>
Medium <br/>
Cultural designation, object date <br/>
Find spot (if known/appropriate) <br/>
Credit line followed by accession number in parentheses on same line

EXAMPLE FOR STYLE 3 <br/>
**Virgin and Child Reliquary** <br/>
Walnut with paint, tin relief on a white lead ground, linen <br/>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; French, Auvergne, carved about 1175–1200 <br/>
Gift of J. Pierpont Morgan, 1916 (16.32.194a, b)

Example of a special exhibition tombstone: <br/>

Nicolas Poussin (French, Les Andelys 1594–1665 Rome)<br/>
*Victory of Joshua over the Amorites,* ca. 1625–26 <br/>
Oil on canvas <br/>
Pushkin State Museum of Fine Arts, Moscow <br/>

Example of a rotation label (tombstone and chat):

**Tea bowl with plum blossoms** <br/>
China, Southern Song dynasty (1127–1279), 12th–13th century <br/>
Stoneware with black and brown glazes and paper-cut designs (Jizhou ware) <br/>
H. O. Havemeyer Collection, Bequest of Mrs. H. O. Havemeyer, 1929 <br/>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; (29.100.223)

Noted for its imaginative designs and innovative techniques, Jizhou ware was produced at kilns in Jiangxi Province in southern China. Here, paper-cut plum blossoms were placed on an initial layer of black glaze and covered with brown glaze. The paper cuts were destroyed during the firing, leaving the design of plum blossoms on the inside of the bowl. <br/>

(Note: In the tombstone, “The Metropolitan Museum of Art” is not used in the credit line for rotation labels of permanent collection objects.)

&nbsp;


#### General  Label  Style

See Dates

Do not use periods at the ends of lines in the tombstone.

Use serial commas (e.g., “Ink, oil, and acrylic” rather than “Ink, oil and acrylic”).

In a chat, spell out numbers from one hundred down (“eleven prints in the series”) as well as centuries (“fifteenth,” not “15th”) but use numerals in the tombstone. An exception in tombstones is a fraction of a century: “First third 14th century.”

Enclose question marks in parentheses and do not leave a space following the preceding word: “Italian(?), ca. 1400.”

“Ex coll.” may be included at the discretion of the department. If it is a matter of particular sensitivity, it should be flagged in TMS.

Dates of an artist’s activity do not appear in the tombstone unless artist’s birth/ death dates are unknown. When needed, use “active” rather than “recorded” or “flourished.”

For anonymous works, use country or culture followed by a comma and the date (French, 15th century) and do not include the word “anonymous.”

However, do leave “anonymous” in TMS as a sorting mechanism; use “anonymous” instead of “artist unknown” or other variant wordings.
